---
categories: []
layout: news_articles
title: Release VB-2014-04
created: 1398951835
---
We are pleased to announce the April release of VectorBase (VB-2014-04):
<ul>
<li>Genome assembly updates for <em>Anopheles gambiae, Anopheles darlingi, Aedes aegypti, Culex quinquefasciatus & Pediculus humanus</em>
<li>Geneset updates for <em>An. gambiae, An. darlingi, Ae. aegypti, Cx. quinquefasciatus & P. humanus</em>
<li>NIAID Arthropod vector-derived cell line transcriptomes for 4 species included. This is the first RNAseq for <em>Ixodes </em></li>
<li>BLAST, ClustalW, HMMer compute cores moved to new hardware. This conversion cleared out all past job results.</li>
<li>VectorBase servers were patched for the <a href="http://heartbleed.com">Heartbleed Vulnerability</a> within 24 hours of public disclosure and are no longer vulnerable. The server certificates were also reissued and the old certificates revoked shortly after. Although the chances of data compromise is minimal, it is recommended that users change their passwords in case of a compromise of login credentials.</li>
<li>In order to make it easier to find help and documentation about VectorBase data, tools and resources, the tutorials page just got an overhaul. Please <a href="/tutorials">follow this link</a> to take a look at it.</li> 
<li>Seven new tutorials about manual annotation have been created for this release, these are a detailed step by step guide of the process using <a href="https://www.sanger.ac.uk/resources/software/artemis/">Artemis</a>. Our overview tutorial about VectorBase<a href="/tutorials/overview-vectorbase-tools-and-resources"> tools</a> has been updated.  
</li>
<li>Follow these links to watch four new video tutorials covering topics such as a VectorBase <a href="/tutorials/tour">Tour</a> and different aspects of the <a href="/tutorials/population-biology-browser-popbio">Population Biology Browser (PopBio),</a> highlighting its relationship with Advanced Search and the Genome Browser.</li>
</ul>

<p>Additional information regarding VB-2014-04 release can be found in the release notes by accessing this link:</p>
<a href="/release/release-vb-2014-04">www.vectorbase.org/release/release-vb-2014-04</a>
