---
categories: []
layout: news_articles
title: Release VB-2016-08
created: 1471968093
---
We are pleased to announce the August 2016 release of VectorBase (VB-2016-08):
<ul>
<li>Four RNA-seq differential expression experiments have been added for <i>Aedes albopictus</i>, <i>Ae. aegypti</i>, <i>Anopheles gambiae</i> and <i>Musca domestica</i>.</li>
<li>Five new insecticide resistance datasets added to the Population Biology resource.</li>
<li>PopBio map: new custom data download facility and improved insecticide resistance coloring</li>
<li>New gene model updates from the community for <a href="/organisms/anopheles-coluzzii/mali-nih/acolm1.3"><i>An. coluzzii</i></a> and <a href="/organisms/biomphalaria-glabrata/bb02/bglab1.4"><i>B. glabrata</i></a>.</li>
<li>New gene set update for <a href="/organisms/musca-domestica"><i>M. domestica</i></a> from the  NCBI Annotation Release 101.</li>
<li>New RNAseq functionality with improved search, alignments, track hubs and a <b><a href="/tutorials/tools-and-resources-tutorials/rnaseq-resources-vectorbase">tutorial</a></b>. Please also see the future releases section at the end of these release notes for details of the retirement of old RNAseq search and display functions.</li>
<li>The strain name for the files in the download section for <i>An. quadriannulatus</i> have been <a href="/organisms/anopheles-quadriannulatus">updated</a> to SANGQUA from SANGWE. This brings the nomenclature used on the site into line with the most recent scientific literature. </li>
<li>STRING <a href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25352553">(PMID:25352553)</a> protein-protein interaction database cross references have been added for <i>Ae. aegypti</i> (9333), <i>An. darlingi</i> (4555), <i>An. gambiae</i> (7872), <i>Cx. quinquefasciatus</i> (11109) and <i>Ixodes scapularis</i> (9349). STRING records can be viewed either via the transcript records for each gene in the genome browser  (e.g. <a href="/Anopheles_gambiae/Transcript/Similarity?g=AGAP004707;r=2L:2358158-2431617;t=AGAP004707-RA">AGAP004707-RA</a>), or retrieved in bulk via BioMart.</li>
<li>Integrated <a href="/proteomes">mass spec data</a> now directly accessible from the Proteome resource</li>
<li>New <a href="/zika">Zika</a> Organism Resource page provides background information about the Zika virus, some recent news/social media about the virus, and links to helpful resources and publications hosted on VectorBase and/or other websites.</li>
<li>Some changes were made to the scheduling back-end of BLAST queries to increase efficiency. In general, VectorBase users should observe a considerable improvement in the response time.</li>
<li>A new <a href="/tutorials/tools-and-resources-tutorials/comparative-genomics">Comparative Genomics</a> video tutorial has been created</li>
</ul>

For more information please follow this link: <a href="https://www.vectorbase.org/release/release-vb-2016-08#">https://www.vectorbase.org/release/release-vb-2016-08#</a>
