---
categories: []
layout: news_articles
title: Release VB-2018-04
created: 1524682867
---
We are pleased to announce the April 2018 release of VectorBase (VB-2018-04):
<ul>
<li>Many large (and small) datasets have been added to the Population Biology database, including abundance data from four counties in Florida, additional years of data from Southern Nevada, and entomological monitoring data from Uganda. In total 1.6 million new data records have been added, representing 16 million individual vector specimens.</li>
<li>The timelime plots in the PopBio map are more responsive and now show vector abundance averaged over year, month, week or day, as appropriate. Currently our most longitudinal dataset is from Southern Nevada, with nine consecutive years of data.</i>
<li>New variation data have been added for 
  <ol>
  <li> <a href="https://www.vectorbase.org/Culex_quinquefasciatus/Info/Index"><em>Culex quinquefasciatus</em></a> (two SNPs implicated in insecticide resistance from the paper by Walter Fabricio Silva Martins et al, "Local selection in the presence of high levels of gene flow: Evidence of heterogeneous insecticide selection pressure across Ugandan <em>Culex quinquefasciatus</em> populations", PLOS, Neglected Tropical Diseases <a href="https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pntd.0005917">doi.org/10.1371/journal.pntd.0005917</a>).</li>
  <li> <a href="https://www.vectorbase.org/Biomphalaria_glabrata/Info/Index"><em>Biomphalaria glabrata</em></a> variants derived from the Bge3 cell line from the paper currently in preparation "Sequence and structural variation in the genome of the <em>Biomphalaria glabrata</em> embryonic (Bge) cell line". (Nicolas J. Wheeler, Nathalie Dinguirard, Joshua Marquez, Adrian Gonzalez, Mostafa Zamanian, Timothy P. Yoshino, Maria G. Castillo)</li>
  <li> New variation data for the G3 <em>A. gambiae</em> colony provided by Tony Nolan, Imperial College, London.</li>
</ol>
<li> Four new differential expression datasets added, including species <i>Biomphalaria glabrata</i> and <i>Cimex lectularius</i>.</li>
<li> New whole genome alignment for Aedes aegypti AaegL5 vs Aedes albopictus.</li>
<li>There are two <a href="/tutorials/tools-and-resources-tutorials/population-biology-popbio">new video tutorials</a> available, PopBio overview and PopBio insecticide resistance view. </li>
<li>Unlike our current practice exercises, we now have a <a href="/tutorials/general-tutorials/sample-use-cases">new tutorial integrating</a> most major tools with (four) sample cases. The answer key is provided.</li>
<li>The ~80 <a href="/faqs">FAQs</a> have been revised, of these seven questions not relevant or valid any more have been deleted. The <a href="/faqs">FAQs</a> categories updated included General, Site usage, Browser, Expression data, Compara and Community manual annotation with Apollo.</li>
</ul>

For more details follow this link: <a href="/release/release-vb-2018-04#">vectorbase.org/release/release-vb-2018-04#</a>
