---
title: Cryptosporidium gp60 Resource Page
permalink: /gp60
tags: [general]
category: [CryptoDB]
---
<style>

div.method-details {
  margin: 2em;
}

h3 {
  color: #213860;
}

</style>

<h1><i>Cryptosporidium gp60</i> Resource Page</h1>

<div class="static-content"> 

<h3>Importance of the <i>gp60</i> Gene in <i>Cryptosporidium</i> Research</h3>
Species of the protozoan genus <i>Cryptosporidium</i> are globally important One Health pathogens, causing the gastrointestinal illness cryptosporidiosis in both humans and animals. For over 25 years, <i>Cryptosporidium</i> molecular epidemiology studies have relied on subtyping of the <i>gp60</i> gene, which encodes a highly polymorphic immunodominant 60 kDa glycoprotein involved in host cell invasion. Subtyping this gene has been widely accepted by the scientific community and used globally to study the diversity, transmission, and zoonotic potential of <i>Cryptosporidium</i> species, especially <i>C. hominis</i> (mainly infecting humans) and <i>C. parvum</i> (infecting humans and other mammals).

<h3>Purpose of this Page</h3>
While the <i>gp60</i> typing scheme started with a simple nomenclature, it has evolved as new features have been discovered by different investigators and has become increasingly complicated. <b>The goal of this page is to collate resources with an aim to promote standardization of the <i>gp60</i> subtyping tool to serve the <i>Cryptosporidium</i> research community.</b>

<h3>Publication: Guide to <i>gp60</i> Subtyping</h3>
The paper <i>Deciphering a cryptic minefield: A guide to Cryptosporidium gp60 subtyping</i> by Robinson et. al. outlines the details and rules for gp60 subtyping into a single publication and provides useful resources for the community. The full open-access paper can be found <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crpvbd.2025.100257" target="_blank">at this link</a>: Guy Robinson, Rachel M. Chalmers, Kristin Elwin, Rebecca A. Guy, Kyrylo Bessonov, Karin Troell, Lihua Xiao, Deciphering a cryptic minefield: A guide to <i>Cryptosporidium gp60</i> subtyping, Current Research in Parasitology & Vector-Borne Diseases, Volume 7, 2025, 100257.

<h3>Summary of Current <i>gp60</i> Subtyping Nomenclature</h3>
The DNA, and corresponding amino acid, sequence variation seen at the <i>gp60</i> locus both within and between <i>Cryptosporidium</i> species has provided multiple features for discrimination that have been included in the nomenclature of the <i>gp60</i> subtyping scheme. These features are listed below. Details and references are available in Robinson et. al., 2025.
       <ul>
        <li><b>Genotype families and allelic groupings</b>: The initial <i>gp60</i> subtyping nomenclature refers to genotype I (<i>C. hominis</i>) and genotype II (<i>C. parvum</i>). Distinct allelic groupings were identified by sequence polymorphisms extending the species designations I and II to define “<i>gp60</i> families” named Ia, Ib, Id, etc. for <i>C. hominis</i> and IIa, IId, etc. for <i>C. parvum</i>.</li>
        <li><b>Serine microsatellite repeats</b>: The second main element of the gp60 subtype nomenclature describes the composition of the serine repeat located upstream of the family-defining region. The serine microsatellite is composed of TCA, TCG or TCT codons and the number of each is counted and recorded, prefixed by A, G or T, following the subtype family name. For example, IeA11G3T3 is a subtype of <i>C. hominis</i> belonging to the Ie allelic family with 11 TCA, 3 TCG and 3 TCT codons in the serine repeat.</li>
        <li><b>R repeat designation</b>: R repeats follow different nomenclature rules depending on the species and gp60 family. The R repeats can be different sequences between species and subtypes and in alternative locations within the gene. Two of the R repeats that cause the most difficulty are in <i>C. hominis</i> subtype families Ia and If (see section below).</li>
        <li><b>The r repeat designation in IIa</b>: In <i>C. parvum</i> family IIa, the very rare occurrence of an ACA threonine codon within the polyserine repeat region has been designated as an “r” repeat with a digit to represent the number of repeats and an alphabetical suffix to signify its different positions within the serine tract.</li>
        <li><b>Alphabetical suffix designation</b>: The position of the ACA r repeat is variable and it was proposed to differentiate between them using an alphabetical suffix. In addition, alphabetical suffixes in gp60 subtyping are used to differentiate variants of the same subtype. The most common use of these suffixes is within the IIc <i>C. parvum</i> gp60 subtype family, and in <i>C. parvum</i> IId due to individual SNPs in the post-repeat region.</li>
        <li><b>Variant designation</b>: Some publications have added the word “variant” where this TCG variation was present (e.g. IIaA15G1R1_variant and IIaA16G1R1b_variant). While this terminology is not recommended as part of the standard nomenclature, it is useful that these variations are detected and compared.</li>
        <li><b>Use of Greek alphabet</b>: With the recognition of the large number of <i>C. parvum gp60</i> families, the allocation of Latin alphabet letters reached its end with the submission of IIy and IIz to GenBank in 2021. In future the Greek alphabet will be used to extend the nomenclature with the letter name is written in full (alpha, beta, gamma, etc.) rather than using the symbol, to avoid confusion due to similarities to Latin characters in certain fonts.</li>
        </ul>

<h3>Current gp60 Subtyping Table</h3>
A curated live version of the master-list of contemporary <i>gp60</i> nomenclature can be viewed <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jGudi-s34ShrlJxciSpdPd9MgyAx1aFf/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=110551133009250701521&rtpof=true&sd=true" target="_blank">on this spreadsheet.</a> Please refer to this spreadsheet to identify the subtype family, or to determine new subtype families or species designations, and use the contact link at the end of this page to notify curators of any novel designations. This will ensure curation and avoid duplication thus preserving the nomenclature.

<iframe width="640px" height="480px" src="https://outlookuga-my.sharepoint.com/:x:/g/personal/nkittur_uga_edu/EcrE-iaQ3ktNmd3Gs4RsjKAB5yJCj_6JWEOZwOp7uLnMDQ?e=aki51H" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" style="border: none; max-width:100%; max-height:100vh" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen> </iframe>


<h3>Examples of Alignment of Complicated R Repeats</h3>
An area of confusion with R repeats is their DNA sequence variability making it particularly difficult for users to identify them as repeats and hence determine the correct number. This is due to how the repeats have been described, based on a repeat identified from the nucleotide sequence, often using Tandem Repeat Finder, whereas investigating the resulting amino acid sequence can simplify the identification. Two of the R repeats that cause the most difficulty are in <i>C. hominis</i> subtype families Ia and If. Examples of alignment of these repeats are provided here for assistance: <a target="_blank" href="{{'/documents/gp60_Ia_R_repeat_alignment.fas' | absolute_url}}">Ia fasta file</a> and <a target="_blank" href="{{'/documents/gp60_If_R_repeat_alignment.fas' | absolute_url}}">If fasta file</a>. Opening these files in <a href="https://bioedit.software.informer.com/download/" target="_blank">BioEdit</a> freeware will show how each of these unusual repeats are aligned. 

<h3> Software for gp60 analysis: CryptoGenotyper</h3>
An automated tool called CryptoGenotyper was developed for analysing both gp60 and SSU rRNA (single or mixed small subunit ribosomal RNA- useful for distinguishing different Cryptosporidum species) Sanger sequences to increase the accuracy and speed of genotyping. The <i>gp60</i> part of the tool accepts “.ab1” input files and determines the sequence based on fluorescent intensities. The software includes a reference database against which the sequence is BLASTed and the number of repeat regions, species and subtypes are reported. The updated CryptoGenotyper v1.5.0 now has a new added feature for direct analysis of nucleotide sequences stored in text-based FASTA files in addition to Sanger sequencing chromatogram data files in “.ab1” format. The manually curated reference database for classifying the sequences has also been updated and now includes: the multitude of newly described species and families with distinct nomenclature; updated algorithms for repeat region detection; and the standardized nomenclature described in this paper. This tool is especially useful when processing large number of sequences.
<p>The CryptoGenotyper tool is available on several platforms including the web-based platform Galaxy installable from the <a href="https://toolshed.g2.bx.psu.edu/" target="_blank">public ToolShed repository</a> (tool id: cryptogenotyper, owner: nml), from the <a href="https://usegalaxy.eu/root?tool_id=CryptoGenotyper" target="_blank">public Galaxy EU server</a>, or as a <a href="https://anaconda.org/bioconda/cryptogenotyper" target="_blank">standalone Bioconda package</a>. The source code is available <a href="https://github.com/phac-nml/CryptoGenotyper" target="_blank">here in Github</a>.</p>

<h3> <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeUAcedO-I2b5IXXOW4p_iZGsoNkbROXA11_LHtVAJSZ1PTSQ/viewform?usp=header" target="_blank">Link for Contact Form</a></h3>
The Contact Form can be used to:
<ul>
<li><b>Notify curators of any novel designations</b>. Refer to the gp60 Master-list on the gp60 Resource Page to identify the subtype family, or to determine new subtype families or species designations, and use the contact link above to notify curators of any novel designations. This will ensure curation and avoid duplication thus preserving the nomenclature.</li>
<li><b>Submit updates of any additional features discovered</b>, for example, the discovery of new R repeat variation, to the gp60 Master-list by using the contact link above.</li>
<li>Provide feedback, comments, and suggestions for this resource page.</li>

<iframe width="640px" height="480px" src="https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=HmwhqGNNUkOMO1D6HxR1sfSzFThO1v5EiUjn4NwIEKFUMEhVVjMxR05KU0tBOFZVMlRBMEM2SlJKNC4u&embed=true" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" style="border: none; max-width:100%; max-height:100vh" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen> </iframe>

