---
categories: []
title: Rhodnius genome project announcement
category: [VectorBase]
created: 1166500800
---
Janiero with participants from Canada, USA, Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay. At this meeting a Steering Committee to oversee and coordinate the Genome Project and work with John Spieth ( Washington U Genome Sequencing Center) to accomplish the goals of the White Paper. The Steering Committee consists of Erwin Huebner (Coordinator), Antonio Bernardo de Carvalho , Ellen Dotson, Carl Lowenberger, Fernando Monteiro, Pedro  Oliveira, Francisco Panzera and Rolando Rivera Pomar. Other sub-committees were also established which will become more active once the genome project progresses further.<br/> 
<p>An important issue that arose in the initial consideration of  which colony should be the source of DNA for the sequencing was that a survey of some of the longstanding lab colonies showed that they were in fact a hybrid of  prolixus and  a closely related species Rhodnius robustus. It became important to genotype as many as Rhodnius colonies as possible in order to select a strain that was not of hybrid origin or too heterogeneous. Ellen Dotson and Fernando Monteiro played a key role in this and what has emerged is that the colony at the CDC in Atlanta is indeed prolixus and the best option for the sequencing. The Steering committee in discussion with John Spieth has selected that colony as the source for the full scale sequencing.<br/>
<p>The plan is also to sequence as many ESTs as possible. Rolando Rivera Pomar  has been conducting a survey to catalogue what EST libraries and the vectors used exist within the reduviid research community. If you have not already responded to him or been contact yet please email him and John Spieth any information you may have. Francisco Panzera has provide valuable information on genome size also important at this stage.<br/>
<p>The Steering Committee has also discussed the possibilities for the permanent residence, curation and updating of the data base once the genome is sequenced and assembled. Frank Collins at VectorBase has indicated they are willing to assist the Rhodnius community, provide advice and help and will provide a home for the Rhodnius Genome data base. It has been agreed by the Steering Committee in discussion with Frank that the genome will reside at VectorBase. In addition to and in concert with the assembly and automated annotation that will be done at the Washington U Genome Center  VectorBase will run automated annotations as was done with the mosquito genomes. VectorBase will provide long term curation and maintenance once the Genome Center has released it and submitted sequence data to Gen Bank. The research community will have access to the data base at VectorBase and will play an important roll in the essential mechanical annotation to fully identify genes correctly. It is important that as many researchers as possible be prepared to contribute to the annotation process. We invite everyone who has an interest and wishes to please plan to participate in the annotation of genes in your area of interest, gene families etc. Once the genome assembly has been completed, auto annotation done and the subsequent community wide annotation is needed it will be important to identify one or two persons to serve as annotation coordinators to work with the community and VectorBase.<br/>
<p>The establishment of the List Server at VectorBase provides us an excellent mechanism to foster communication within our community, disseminate information and stimulate new interactions and research in reduviid genomics and proteomics. There are excellent opportunities ahead and we hope you will join us in these exciting times as we bring this project to fruition. Your input, ideas, suggestions and participation are welcomed.<br/>
<p>We are  planning a meeting in Salvador, Brazil, May 19 - 20, 2007 immediately before the SBBq/IUMB Meeting (May 21-25) to discuss Triatomine Biology and the Genome Project Progress and Plans. Please contact Pedro Oliveira, who is coordinating this conference for detail.<br/><br/>
<hr size="1"> Submitted  by Erwin Huebner  (Coordinator of the Rhodnius Genome Project) on behalf of the Steering Committee.
