---
categories: []
title: Release VB-2012-12
category: [EuPathDB,VEuPathDB,VectorBase]
created: 1355742282
---
VectorBase is pleased to announce the last release of 2012 VB-2012-12 release. This is a major change for us as we are releasing the new website. 
<ul>
<li>We have redesigned the homepage to highlight data, tools and resources, FAQs and community interactions. We also anticipate user-focused customization (e.g., accessing previous analyses) in later versions of this site.
<li>The BLAST tool has been improved based on prior feedback and is available under the “Tools” tab.
<li>Computing resources increased by 100% for BLAST, ClustalW, and HMMER jobs.
<li>The search box in the upper right corner of all VectorBase pages can access a new unified search framework. Data is faceted and queries can be filterable by species or type.
<li>We have extended the organisms page. This has allowed us to group genomes in a scalable manner while also highlighting and archiving strain, assembly and gene build history.
The old help pages/wiki have been reallocated into new content under “Help” and “Community” tabs to consolidate these important documents into a single site and to facilitate search access.
</ul>

<p>We encourage you to visit the site and <a href="/contact">welcome feedback</a>

<p><b>Highlights of this release include:</b>

<ul>
<li>New project website, for more details see the tour of the new site
<li><em>Anopheles darlingi</em> included in comparative analyses, DNA-DNA alignments between mosquitoes and Drosophila melanogaster
<li>Updated gene symbol and synonyms for mosquito species
</ul>

Additional information regarding VB_2012-12 release new release, including specific changes regarding the new beta version of VectorBase, can be found in the <a href="/release/release-vb-2012-12">release notes</a>.

Happy holidays

VectorBase Team
