---
categories: []
title: Release VB-2017-04
category: [VectorBase]
created: 1493320841
---
We are pleased to announce the April 2017 release of VectorBase (VB-2017-04):
<ul>
<li>The <i>Aedes albopictus</i> <a href="/organisms/aedes-albopictus/c636/canu80xarrow22">C6/36 cell line assembly (canu_80X_arrow2.2)</a> data are available from the <a href="/downloads?field_organism_taxonomy_tid=373&field_download_file_type_tid=412&field_download_file_format_tid=All&field_status_value=Current">Downloads section</a></li>
<li>In this release there have been updates to genes sets for twelve Anopheline species. The latest gene set updates have been derived from community supplied gene annotations for <i>Anopheles arabiensis</i>, <i>Anopheles albimanus</i>, <i>Anopheles darlingi</i>, <i>Anopheles dirus</i>, <i>Anopheles farauti</i>, <i>Anopheles funestus</i>, <i>Anopheles gambiae</i>, <i>Anopheles melas</i>, <i>Anopheles merus</i>, <i>Anopheles minimus</i>, <i>Anopheles quadriannulatus</i> and <i>Anopheles stephensi</i>.</li>
<li>Microarray probe mappings and variation consequence effects have been updated for all species.</li>
<li> New ortholog metrics have been added to help with the identification of "high confidence" orthologs. A new <a href="/faqs/how-are-high-confidence-orthologs-defined">FAQ</a> discusses the new metrics, such as the Gene Order Conservation (GOC) score.</li>
<li>Four new differential expression experiments added.</li>
<li>Fourteen new population biology datasets added, including sample metadata from the MalariaGen 1000 <i>Anopheles gambiae</i> genomes project, insecticide resistance studies and several large new blood meal species identification studies.</li> 
<li><a href="/blast">BLAST</a> has been been updated to allow sorting across all organism hits, by utilizing the expand all and sort all buttons.</li>
<li>New options for higher e-values were added to <a href="/blast">BLAST</a>. Previously, our highest e-value allowed was 10. Current options include 100, 1000, 10000 and 100000. You can test this new feature when using protein queries against scaffolds in tBLASTn for the search of (new) highly derived/rapidly evolving genes.</li>
<li>Three tutorials have been updated for this release: BioMart, BLAST and Web Apollo.</li>
<li>New page for <a href="/workshops">workshops, meetings, and conferences</a> attended by VectorBase.</li>
<li>Search page now allows users to search using a file</li>
</ul>

For more information please follow this link: <a href="https://www.vectorbase.org/release/release-vb-2017-04#">https://www.vectorbase.org/release/release-vb-2017-04#</a>
 
